{\rtf1\fbidis\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}{\f1\fnil Calibri;}{\f2\fnil\fcharset161 Calibri;}}
{\colortbl ;\red255\green0\blue0;\red0\green77\blue187;}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.16299}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\ltrpar\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f0\fs44\lang9 Fundementals of python programming:\par
chapter 3, section 10 (Exercises):\par
\par
\cf1 1. \cf0 Is the literal 4 a valid Python expression?\par
\cf2\ul\fs40\lang1033 =>\lang9 No.\par
\cf0\ulnone\fs44\par
\cf1 2. \cf0 Is the variable x a valid Python expression?\par
\cf2\ul\fs40\lang1033 =>\lang9 No.\par
\cf0\ulnone\fs44\par
\cf1 3. \cf0 Is x + 4 a valid Python expression? \par
\cf2\ul\fs40\lang1033 =>\lang9 yes, but x should be defined.\par
\cf0\ulnone\fs44\par
\cf1 4. \cf0 What affect does the unary + operator have when applied to a numeric expression? \par
\cf2\ul\fs40\lang1033 =>\lang9 No effect all numeric values are positive by default.\par
\cf0\ulnone\fs44\par
\cf1 5. \cf0 Sort the following binary operators in order of high to low precedence: +, -, *, //, /, %, =. \par
\cf2\ul\fs40\lang1033 =>The general order is PEMDAS.\par
parentheses, exponents, multiplication, division, addition and subtraction.\par
so\par
* , // , / , % \cf1 >\cf2   + , - \cf1 >\cf2  =\par
\par
\cf1\ulnone\fs44 6. \cf0 Given the following assignment:\par
 x = 2\par
Indicate what each of the following Python statements would print.\par
(a) print("x")           \cf2\ul\fs40 =>x\par
\cf0\ulnone\fs44 (b) print('x')             \cf2\ul\fs40 =>x\par
\cf0\ulnone\fs44 (c) print(x)               \cf2\ul\fs40 =>2\cf0\ulnone\fs44\par
(d) print("x + 1")     \cf2\ul\fs40 =>x + 1\par
\cf0\ulnone\fs44 (e) print('x' + 1)      \cf2\ul\fs40 =>type error\cf0\ulnone\fs44\par
(f) print(x + 1)         \cf2\ul\fs40 =>3\par
\par
\cf1\ulnone\fs44 7. \cf0 Given the following assignments: \par
i1 = 2 \par
i2 = 5 \par
i3 = -3 \par
d1 = 2.0 \par
d2 = 5.0 \par
d3 = -0.5\par
Evaluate each of the following Python expressions. \par
(a) i1 + i2        \cf2\ul\fs40 =>7\par
\cf0\ulnone\fs44 (b) i1 / i2        \cf2\ul\fs40 =>2/5 = 0.4\cf0\ulnone\fs44\par
(c) i1 // i2       \cf2\ul\fs40 =>2//5 = 0\par
\cf0\ulnone\fs44 (d) i2 / i1        \cf2\ul\fs40 =>5/2 = 2.5\par
\cf0\ulnone\fs44 (e) i2 // i1      \cf2\ul\fs40 =>5//2 = 2\par
\cf0\ulnone\fs44 (f) i1 * i3        \cf2\ul\fs40 =>2 * -3 = -6\cf0\ulnone\fs44\par
(g) d1 + d2     \cf2\ul\fs40 =>2.0 + (-0.5) = 1.5\par
\cf0\ulnone\fs44 (h) d1 / d2     \cf2\ul\fs40 =>2.0/5.0 = 0.4\par
\cf0\ulnone\fs44 (i) d2 / d1      \cf2\ul\fs40 =>5.0/2.0 = 2.5\par
\cf0\ulnone\fs44 (j) d3 * d1     \cf2\ul\fs40 =>-0.5 * 2.0 = -1.0\cf0\ulnone\fs44\par
(k) d1 + i2     \cf2\ul\fs40 =>2.0 + 5 = 7.0\par
\cf0\ulnone\fs44 (l) i1 / d2      \cf2\ul\fs40 =>2/5.0 = 0.4\par
\cf0\ulnone\fs44 (m) d2 / i1    \cf2\ul\fs40 =>5.0/2 = 2.5\par
\cf0\ulnone\fs44 (n) i2 / d1     \cf2\ul\fs40 =>5/5.0 = 1.0\par
\cf0\ulnone\fs44 (o) i1/i2*d1  \cf2\ul\fs40 =>2/5*2.0 = 0.8\par
\cf0\ulnone\fs44 (p) d1*i1/i2  \cf2\ul\fs40 =>2.0*2/5 = 0.8\par
\cf0\ulnone\fs44 (q) d1/d2*i1 \cf2\ul\fs40 =>2.0/5.0*2 = 0.8\par
\cf0\ulnone\fs44 (r) i1*d1/d2  \cf2\ul\fs40 =>2*2.0/5.0 = 0.8\par
\cf0\ulnone\fs44 (s) i2/i1*d1   \cf2\ul\fs40 =>5/2*2.0 = 5.0\par
\cf0\ulnone\fs44 (t) d1*i2/i1   \cf2\ul\fs40 =>2.0*5/2 = 5.0\par
\cf0\ulnone\fs44 (u) d2/d1*i1 \cf2\ul\fs40 =>5.0/2.0*2 = 5.0\par
\cf0\ulnone\fs44 (v) i1*d2/d1 \cf2\ul\fs40 =>2*5.0/2.0 = 2.0\par
\par
\cf1\ulnone\fs44 8. \cf0 What is printed by the following statement:\par
#print(5/3)  \cf2\ul\fs40 =># converts the whole line to a comment, so nothing.\par
\cf0\ulnone\fs44\par
\cf1 9. \cf0 Given the following assignments: \par
i1 = 2 \par
i2 = 5 \par
i3 = -3 \par
d1 = 2.0 \par
d2 = 5.0 \par
d3 = -0.5\par
Evaluate each of the following Python expressions. \par
(a) i1 + (i2 * i3)     \cf2\ul\fs40 =>2+(5*-3)= -13\cf0\ulnone\fs44\par
(b) i1 * (i2 + i3)     \cf2\ul\fs40 =>2*(5-3) = 4\par
\cf0\ulnone\fs44 (c) i1 / (i2 + i3)      \cf2\ul\fs40 =>2/(5-3) = 1.0\par
\cf0\ulnone\fs44 (d) i1 // (i2 + i3)    \cf2\ul\fs40 =>2//(5-3) = 1\par
\cf0\ulnone\fs44 (e) i1 / i2 + i3        \cf2\ul\fs40 => 2/5 -3 = -2.6\cf0\ulnone\fs44\par
(f) i1 // i2 + i3       \cf2\ul\fs40 => 2//5 -3 = -3\cf0\ulnone\fs44\par
(g) 3 + 4 + 5 / 3     \cf2\ul\fs40 =>8.66...\cf0\ulnone\fs44\par
(h) 3 + 4 + 5 // 3   \cf2\ul\fs40 =>8\par
\cf0\ulnone\fs44 (i) (3 + 4 + 5) / 3   \cf2\ul\fs40 =>4.0\par
\cf0\ulnone\fs44 (j) (3 + 4 + 5) // 3 \cf2\ul\fs40 => 4\par
\cf0\ulnone\fs44 (k) d1 + (d2 * d3)\par
\cf2\ul\fs40 =>2.0 + (5.0 * -0.5) = -0.5\cf0\ulnone\fs44\par
(l) d1 + d2 * d3\par
\cf2\ul\fs40 =>2.0 + 5.0 * -0.5 = -0.5\cf0\ulnone\fs44\par
(m) d1 / d2 - d3\par
\cf2\ul\fs40 =>2.0 / 5.0 - (-0.5) = 0.9\par
\cf0\ulnone\fs44 (n) d1 / (d2 - d3)\par
\cf2\ul\fs40 =>2.0/(5.0 - (-0.5)) = 0.3636...\cf0\ulnone\fs44\par
(o) d1 + d2 + d3 / 3\par
\cf2\ul\fs40 =>2.0 + 5.0 -0.5/3 = 2.88...\cf0\ulnone\fs44\par
(p) (d1 + d2 + d3) / 3\par
\cf2\ul\fs40 =>(2.0 + 5.0 - 0.5)/3 = 2.166...\cf0\ulnone\fs44\par
(q) d1 + d2 + (d3 / 3)\par
\cf2\ul\fs40 =>2.0+5.0+(-0.5/-3) = 7.66...\par
\cf0\ulnone\fs44 (r) 3 * (d1 + d2) * (d1 - d3)\par
\cf2\ul\fs40 =>3*(2+5)*(2.0 - (-0.5)) = 52.5\par
\cf0\lang9\par
\cf1\ulnone\fs44 10.\cf0  What symbol signi\f1\u-1279?es the beginning of a comment in Python?\par
\cf2\ul\f0\fs40\lang1033 =>#\cf0\ulnone\fs44\par
\f1\lang9\par
\cf1 11.\cf0  How do Python comments end? \par
\cf2\ul\f0\fs40\lang1033 =>comments, are line elements, so if the line changes, comment will end.\par
\cf0\ulnone\f1\fs44\lang9\par
\cf1 12. \cf0 Which is better, too many comments or too few comments?\par
\cf2\ul\f0\fs40\lang1033 =>The happy medium is moderate amount of useful comments.\par
but, "when in doubt, add a remark" as the book explains itself...\f1\lang9\par
\cf0\ulnone\fs44\par
\cf1 13. \cf0 What is the purpose of comments? \par
\cf2\ul\f0\fs40\lang1033 =>human readability:\par
in case a piece of code needs to be modified by another programmer or even the same programmer, comments aid them in reading and understanding the code faster.\f1\lang9\par
\cf0\ulnone\fs44\par
\cf1 14. \cf0 Why is human readability such an important consideration? \par
\cf2\ul\f0\fs40\lang1033 =>"Programmers are more important then programs"\par
humans write code, so it is crucial that they understand the code easier and faster.\par
\cf0\ulnone\fs44\par
\cf1 15. \cf0 What circumstances can cause each of the following run-time errors to arise? \par
\f1\bullet  NameError \par
\cf2\ul\f0\fs40 =>using undefined variable\cf0\ulnone\f1\fs44\par
\bullet  ValueError \f0  \par
\cf2\ul\fs40 =>wrong value given to functions, like int('pizza')\cf0\ulnone\f1\fs44\par
\bullet  ZeroDivisionError \par
\cf2\ul\f0\fs40 =>dividing by zero: 2/0\f1\par
\cf0\ulnone\fs44\bullet  IndentationError \par
\cf2\ul\f0\fs40 =>python declares blocks by indentation, so unnecessary indentation may cause this error\cf0\ulnone\f1\fs44\par
\bullet  OverflowError \par
\cf2\ul\f0\fs40 =>math operations having very large results: \par
1.5**9999\f1\par
\cf0\ulnone\fs44\bullet  SyntaxError\par
\cf2\ul\f0\fs40 =>incomplete code, or problems regarding the way python should be written: print)\f1\par
\cf0\ulnone\fs44\bullet  TypeError \par
\cf2\ul\f0\fs40 =>trying to work with incompatible types: print("your age is: " + 13)\f1\par
\cf0\ulnone\fs44\par
\cf1 16. \cf0 Consider the following program which contains some errors. You may assume that the comments within the program accurately describe the program\rquote s intended behavior. \par
# Get two numbers from the user \par
n1 = float(input()) # 1 \par
n2 = float(input()) # 2 \par
# Compute sum of the two numbers \par
print(n1 + n2) # 3 \par
# Compute average of the two numbers \par
print(n1+n2/2) # 4 \par
# Assign some variables \par
d1 = d2 = 0 # 5 \par
\cf2\ul\f0\fs40 =>both d1 and d2 are 0, d2 is useless.\f1\par
\cf0\ulnone\fs44 # Compute a quotient \par
print(n1/d1) # 6\par
\cf2\ul\f0\fs40 =>zeroDivisionError since d1 is 0\f1\par
\cf0\ulnone\fs44 # Compute a product \par
n1*n2 = d1 # 7 \par
\cf2\ul\f0\fs40 =>d1 = n1*n2\f1\par
\cf0\ulnone\fs44 # Print result print(d1) # 8\par
For\f0  \f1 each\f0  \f1 line\f0  \f1 listed\f0  \f1 inthe\f0  \f1 comments,\f0  \f1 indicate\f0  \f1 whether\f0  \f1 or\f0  \f1 not\f0  \f1 an\f0  \f1 interpreter\f0  \f1 error,run-time\f0  \f1 exception, or logic error is present. Not all lines contain an error.\par
\f0\par
\cf1\lang9 17. \cf0 Write the shortest way to express each of the following statements. \par
(a) x = x + 1 \cf2\ul\fs40 =>x += 1\par
\cf0\ulnone\fs44 (b) x = x / 2 \cf2\ul\fs40 =>x /=2\par
\cf0\ulnone\fs44 (c) x = x - 1 \cf2\ul\fs40 =>x -= 1\par
\cf0\ulnone\fs44 (d) x = x + y \cf2\ul\fs40 =>x += y\par
\cf0\ulnone\fs44 (e) x = x - (y + 7) \cf2\ul\fs40 =>x -= y+7\par
\cf0\ulnone\fs44 (f) x = 2*x \cf2\ul\fs40 =>x *= 2\par
\cf0\ulnone\fs44 (g) number_of_closed_cases = number_of_closed_cases + 2*ncc\par
\cf2\ul\fs40 => number_of_closed_cases += 2*ncc\cf0\ulnone\fs44\par
\par
\cf1 18. \cf0 What is printed by the following code fragment? \par
x1 = 2 \par
x2 = 2 \par
x1 += 1 \par
x2 -= 1 \par
print(x1) \cf2\ul\fs40 =>3\par
\cf0\ulnone\fs44 print(x2) \cf2\ul\fs40 =>1\par
\cf0\ulnone\fs44 Why does the output appear as it does? \par
\cf2\ul\fs40 => x1 += 1 means x1 = x1 + 1\par
and x2 -= 1 means x2 = x2 - 1\par
\cf0\ulnone\fs44\par
\cf1 19. \cf0 Consider the following program that attempts to compute the circumference of a circle given the radius entered by the user. Given a circle\f1\rquote\f0 s radius, r, the circle\f1\rquote\f0 s circumference, C is given by the formula: C = 2\f2\lang1032\'f0r\par
r = 0 \par
PI = 3.14159 \par
# Formula for the area of a circle given its radius C = 2*PI*r \par
\cf2\ul\f0\fs40\lang1033 => r is not defined yet.\f2\lang1032\par
\cf0\ulnone\fs44 # Get the radius from the user \par
r = float(input("Please enter the circle's radius: ")) \par
\cf2\ul\f0\fs40\lang1033 =>should be above C = 2*PI*r\f2\lang1032\par
\cf0\ulnone\fs44 # Print the circumference \par
print("Circumference is", C)\par
\cf2\ul\f0\fs40\lang1033 => C should get casted to str: str(C)\f2\lang1032\par
\cf0\ulnone\fs44 (a) The program does not produce the intended result. Why? \par
\cf2\ul\f0\fs40\lang1033 => explained above.\f2\lang1032\par
\cf0\ulnone\fs44 (b) How can it be repaired so that it works correctly?\par
\cf2\ul\f0\fs40\lang1033 =>\par
PI = 3.14159\par
\f2\lang1032 r = float(input("Please enter the circle's radius: "))\par
\f0\lang1033 C = str(2*r*PI)\f2\lang1032\par
\f0\lang1033 print("Circumference is: ", C)\par
}
 